# cucumber-playwright-typescript
This repository contains a comprehensive test automation framework integrating Cucumber, Playwright, and TypeScript. The framework is designed to facilitate Behavior-Driven Development (BDD) and end-to-end testing for modern web applications
## Folder Structure
├── src/
│ └── tests/
│ ├── features/
│ ├── pages/
│ ├── steps/
│ └── utils/
│ ├── basePage.ts
│ └── hooks.ts
├── .env
├── .gitignore
├── cucumber.json
├── package.json
├── README.md
├── report.ts
└── tsconfig.json

### Folder Descriptions

- **node_modules/**: Directory for Node.js modules. Automatically generated by npm.
- **reports/**: Directory where test reports are generated and stored.
- **src/tests/**: Main directory for test-related files and subdirectories.
  - **features/**: Contains Cucumber feature files written in Gherkin syntax.
  - **pages/**: Page Object Model (POM) files defining the structure and behavior of web pages.
  - **steps/**: Step definition files where the Gherkin steps are implemented.
  - **utils/**: Utility functions and helper methods used across the framework.
    - **basePage.ts**: A base page object class that other page objects can extend.
    - **hooks.ts**: Contains Cucumber hooks for setting up and tearing down tests.
- **.env**: Environment variables file.
- **.gitignore**: Specifies files and directories to be ignored by git.
- **cucumber.json**: Configuration file for Cucumber.
- **package.json**: Contains metadata about the project and its dependencies.
- **README.md**: The file you are currently reading.
- **report.ts**: Script for generating or managing test reports.
- **tsconfig.json**: Configuration file for TypeScript.

- ## Prerequisites

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (v12.x or higher)
- [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) (v6.x or higher)
- [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) (recommended)

- ## Getting Started

1. **Clone the repository**:

    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/ratnesh85/cucumber-playwright-typescript
    cd your-repository
    ```

2. **Install dependencies**:

    ```sh
    npm install
    ```

3. **Run tests**:

    ```sh
    npm test
    ```

## Writing Tests

1. **Create feature files** in the `src/tests/features/` directory using Gherkin syntax.
2. **Create step definitions** in the `src/tests/steps/` directory to implement the steps in the feature files.
3. **Create page objects** in the `src/tests/pages/` directory to encapsulate the interactions with the web pages.

## Configuration

- **Cucumber**: Configure Cucumber options in the `cucumber.json` file.
- **TypeScript**: Adjust TypeScript settings in the `tsconfig.json` file.
- **Environment Variables**: Set environment-specific variables in the `.env` file.

## Running Tests

To execute the tests, run:

```sh
npm test
